# Post-processing of decoding pipeline for use in BWM paper

The files in this directory will allow you to convert the decoding pipeline output into a form that can be
plotted in the figures of the BWM paper.
The processing done in this step is primarily to read in the output summary tables of the decoding
pipeline and combine regions.  Specifically, the decoding pipeline outputs are sorted according to region
and session, but sessions of the same region need to be combined using fisher's method to plot per-region
results in the paper.

This directory also generates plots, some of which are used in the main and SI figures of the BWM paper.

It also computes the omnibus p-value after running the omnibus decoding pipeline 
(see decoding pipeline README).  Since the omnibus decoding ignores regions, all decoding is done 
per-session.  The per-session p-values are combined using fisher's method to produce the 
omnibus p-value.  Typically we check that this is near zero (<< 1e-10), which should be the case for all 
variables.

## set-up of directories
Copy the summary table files ("\*.csv" and "\*_xy.pkl" that result from the decoding pipeline) for use in 
this directory.  Paste the files into a sub-sub-directory called `decoding_results/summary/`.
You should also create directories called 
`decoding_figures/`, `decoding_figures/SI/` and `decoding_processing/`.

## generate per-region (combined session) result files
To process block summary tables, run the file
`
plot_decoding_block_panel.py
`
up to the end of the first block denoted by `# %%` (spyder notation).  You will want to change the 
variable `file_all_results` to match the name of the summary table files that came out of the decoding
pipeline for the block variable.

Do likewise for the rest of the files listed below to process all the other variables besides block.  
In each file, change `file_all_results` to match the summary table files
of the corresponding variable.  Then, run the first block (up to `# %%`) of these files to process 
stimulus side, choice, feedback, wheel-speed, and wheel-velocity:
- `plot_decoding_stimside.py`
- `plot_decodoing_choice_panel.py`
- `plot_decoding_reward_panel.py`
- `plot_decoding_wheel-speed_panel.py`
- `plot_decoding_wheel-vel_panel.py`
.

These files will each save per-region results in the `decoding_processing/` directory.  These results 
were used to generate brain-wide figures in the BWM paper (figures 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, S8, S9, S13, S14, S17)
by Christopher Langdon.

## plotting
If you desire to view the swanson flatmaps locally, you can generate them by running subsequent 
blocks of code (after the first `# %%`) in the above files.

The above files also save the weights that result from L1 regression for each variable in the 
`decoding_processing/` directory.
The distribution of these weights are shown in figure S19 and can be generated by running
the script, `plot_hist_weights.py`.

You may also want to generate the decoding extra panels found in the main figures 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9.  There is one 
script which generates all of these extra panels for the figures, called `plot_extra_panels.py`.  It is not likely,
however, that you will need to do this because Michael Schartner has this code and was working on a script that 
plots all the analyses' extra panels at once.  In that case, the files used in this script should be sent to 
Michael. 

Next, you can generate the decoding bar plots found in figure S6 by running `plot_bwm_bars.py`.  
I previously shared a function with Yanliang Shi which creates these bar plots, `toyanliang_plotbars.py`.  
He then made similar bar plots from the single neuron analysis.  But it is unlikely that you will need
that script because `plot_bwm_bars.py` works without it.

Figure S15 has four panels which explains why wheel-velocity r2 scores are lower than wheel-speed r2 scores.
We show that wheel-velocity r2 scores are smaller for both the real and null targets, but that the
effect size and number of significant regions are comparable.  
The panels that explain this can be generated by running `why_is_wheelvel_good.py`.

## omnibus processing, computing omnibus p-value and plotting
To compute the omnibus p-values for most of the variables, run the file `omnibus_all.py`.  Make sure to change
the variable `file_all_results` to match the summary table files of each variable (there are multiple in the script
corresponding to multiple variables).  This script will save plots
`decoding_figures/SI/pvalues_VARI_omnibus.png` where VARI is the name of each variable evaluated.  These plots
are histograms of p-values and **the title of the plot contains the omnibus p-value**.

Unfortunately, I ran into issues with the omnibus wheel-velocity decoding pipeline. The cluster jobs do not finish 
properly.  This meant that I needed to hack the wheel-velocity omnibus p-value by computing an upper-bound of the
p-value rather than the p-value itself.  To compute this upper-bound for wheel-velocity, run the file
`omnibus_nobwmloading.py` and see that the last block of code does this.  The omnibus p-value is upper-bounded by 
replacing all non-completed
session-wise p-values with a maximum p-value of N_PSEUDO/(N_PSEUDO+1) where N_PSEUDO is the number of 
pseudo sessions for the wheel-velocity variable.  Even with this upper-bound, we still find that the omnibus 
p-value is near zero.

Additionally, I ran into problems with loading the bwm units using the function `brainwidemap.bwm_loading.bwm_units`.
This was likely a temporary issue that I ran into locally, but if you have a problem with it, you can use the file 
`omnibus_nobwmloading.py` instead of `omnibus_all.py`.
